PEOPLE ARE MARCHING TO TELL THE CITY MANAGER
THAT WE DON'T WANT HIM TOUCHING THE ART
TO BAIL THE CITY OUT.
I'M GOING TO GO OVER THIS CHANT SLOWLY
AND THEN WE ARE GOIN TO GET A LITTLE BIT
OF A RHYTHMIC THING GOING ON AS WE MARCH.
AS YOU KNOW
THE CITY IS BANKRUPT, OR SO THEY SAY.
18.5 MILLION DOLLARS.
PART OF THE PLAN IS TO SELL ART WORK
FROM THE DIA,
WHICH HAS BEEN PUBLICLY FUNDED
SO THEREFORE ITÕS APPARENTLY SUBJECT TO SALE
THROUGH THE BANKRUPTCY LAW.
AND WE'RE HERE TO SAY
THAT SHOULD NOT HAPPEN.
THIS IS OUR MUSEUM, OUR ART.
WE SAY THAT THE ART BELONGS TO THE PEOPLE.
INSIDE IS THE DIEGO RIVERA MURAL
WHICH WAS PAINTED IN THE 1030'S BY DIEGO RIVERA,
A SOCIALIST AND A PARTISAN OF THE WORKING CLASS.
IN THE 1930'S WORKERS DEFENDED|THAT MURAL
AGAINST THE FASCIST SYMPATHIZER, FATHER COUGHLIN
FROM HIS CHURCH IN ROYAL OAK
WHO WANTED THE MURAL DESTROYED.
WE FEEL NOW THAT WE HAVE TO MOBILIZE PEOPLE
IN DEFENSE OF THE RIGHT TO CULTURE.
THE WORKING CLASS IS HERE TO FIGHT
CULTURE IS A SOCIAL RIGHT.
THE DIA IS A STATEMENT
ABOUT THE SOCIAL CONDITIONS IN THIS COUNTRY.
EVERYBODY HERE IN ONE FORM OR ANOTHER
ARE HURTING.
AND WE KNOW THAT TREASURES LIKE THE DIA
ONCE THEY ARE DESTROYED
THEY ARE GONE FOR EVER.
HANDS OFF THE DIA
CULTURE IS A SOCIAL RIGHT
THE WORKING CLASS IS HERE TO FIGHT
HANDS OFF THE DIA
THESE ARE TREASURES THAT BELONG TO EVERYBODY.
AND THEY ARE SUCH AN ESSENTIAL PART OF DETROIT
THAT I DON'T THINK ANYTHING SHOULD BE SOLD OFF.
I THINK THEY SHOULD FIGURE OUT
SOME OTHER WAY TO MAKE THE MONEY.